## ESR. Increased national targets in line with an EU- wide reduction of 40% in the ESR sectors compared to 2005. Member States contribute to the overall EU reduction in 2030 with targets ranging from -10% to -50% below 2005 level (sectors: transport, buildings, agriculture and waste)
Regulation (EU) 2023/857

Thematic area: #TA1_Climate_ambition

Assessment: The current (2022) reduction is 17% relative to 2005, far from the 40% reduction target set for 2030. Between 2013 and 2020, Member States met or overa- chieved their ESR obligations- with the largest reductions in the buildings and small industry sectors. Emissions are expected to continue decreasing in the com- ing decade due to –among others- source control legislation, such as improved building standards, building renovations, CO2 standards for road vehicles and EU policies on phasing down hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) and other fluorinated gases. Progress in the transport and building sectors faces different challenges. While transport emissions are regulated by EU-wide CO2 emission standards for vehicles (which have a relatively fast turnover rate), renovating the building stock is a more challenging effort, primarily driven by Member States' policies. Therefore, Member States' projections for building emissions significantly lag behind the expected cost-effective rate of reduction [31].
Overall, EU emissions in the sectors covered by the ESR, according to 2023 Member States projections, are expected to fall by 27-32% (with existing and ad- ditional measures, respectively) by 2030 compared to 2005, i.e. 8 -13 percentage points below the 40% target for 2030, with only 6 Member States projected to (over-) achieve their targets [22].
Absolute emissions in the agriculture sector have stagnated since 2010, while agricultural aggregate output has increased, decreasing emission intensity of EU agricultural products by 13%.
Concerning emission reductions, current Member States' projections under the Governance Regulation foresee 2030 emissions with existing measures to be 373 MtCO2e (or -3% compared to 2021) and 359 MtCO2e (or -7 %) with additional measures. The 2030 ‘MIX (55 Euro/t CO2e)’ scenario, used to assess the Fit for 55 targets corresponds to a -7 % decline in the agricultural sector by 2030 compared to 2021, aligning with the Member States ‘with additional measures’ scenario. The current (2023-2027) CAP aims to contribute to climate mitigation, with Member State strategies outlined in their Strategic Plans. Estimates of the CAP 2023-2027 impact on emissions require detailed information on the implementation and effectiveness of farming practices from the CAP instruments, which are currently being evaluated.

Colour: #orange