## 6. The risk and use of chemical pesticides is reduced by 50%, and the use of more hazardous pesticides is reduced by 50%
Biodiversity Strategy
Target in common with the Farm to Fork Strategy and already assessed in Thematic Area 5trategy)

Thematic area: #TA6_Preserving_and_protecting_biodiversity

Assessment: Indicator: Use and risk of chemical pesticides (Source: DG SANTE).
According to a trend analysis by DG SANTE, the use and risk of chemical pesticides decreased by 14% between the baseline period of 2015–2017 and 2020. The use and risk of chemical pesticides shows a decrease of 6% from 2020, and an overall decrease in the first four years of observation of 33% from the baseline period of 2015-2017. These overall downward trends shows that the first part of the target can be achieved by 2030 [182]. On the other side, according to data published
by DG SANTE, the use of more hazardous pesticides fell by 21% between the baseline period of 2015–2017 and 2021. The use of more hazardous pesticides shows an increase of 5% from 2020 to 2021. Achievement of the 50% reduction target by 2030 remains challenging. It should be noted, while this indicator intends to monitor the use of the more hazardous pesticides, it does not take into account the exposure and hence the impact they might have on the environment and human health. In the future, this indicator should be complemented with a risk indicator showing changes in the actual risks.
1 It should be noted that the current EU-wide indicator, which applies risk weightings to four differ- ent groups of chemical pesticides and is based on pesticide sales, is not considered scientifically robust by some. This indicator is based on a similar harmonised risk indicator, which, according
to the European legislation (Commission Directive (EU) 2019/782), is considered hazard-based. This is due to the absence of statistics on the use of plant protection products needed to develop a risk indicator. The Commission is committed to developing more sophisticated indicators in future, such as improved weightings that take hazard properties into account in a more granular way or by using EU-level data on pesticide usage when it becomes available. An example of
such an improvement is the new risk indicator assessing the toxicity of pesticide residues in soil from samples collected under the LUCAS Soil Pesticide survey coordinated by JRC. According to this indicator, in 2018, 14% of sites in the EU were at risk of negative effects on soil organisms due to pesticide residues. The analysis of samples from 2022 is currently ongoing and will shed light on the EU’s progress towards pesticide risk reductions. This indicator is relevant to only one compartment (soil) but is just one of many being examined for usefulness and relevance. 

Colour: #orange